docs: document new hw requirements (#2787)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/hardware-requirements.md

---
sidebar_label: "Hardware Requirements"
title: "Hardware Requirements"
description: "Learn about the hardware requirements for Palette Edge devices."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

An Edge host must meet the minimum hardware requirements to be deployed successfully. Certain features such as Trusted
Boot also specific hardware requirements. This page provides general guidance on the minimum hardware requirements for
your Edge devices.

> Due to variations in hardware and firmware capabilities, in addition to different workloads required by each user. you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to variations in hardware and firmware capabilities, in addition to different workloads required by each user, you
```

should always verify and evaluate specific devices with Palette Edge as part of solution design. To learn more, contact
Spectro Cloud sales at sales@spectrocloud.com.

## Minimum Requirements

All Edge devices must meet the following minimum hardware requirements.

### AMD64 Architecture Devices

| Component | Requirement                                                                                          |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU       | - Intel: i3, i5, i7, i9, Xeon series <br /> - AMD: Ryzen 3, 5, 7, 9, and Epyc series                 |
| CPU Core  | Minimum two cores.                                                                                   |
| Memory    | Minimum 8 GB.                                                                                        |

> | Storage   | Main drive requires a minimum of 100 GB storage to accommodate Operating System (OS) and Kubernetes. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Storage   | Main system drive requires a minimum of 100 GB storage to accommodate the Operating System (OS), Kubernetes, and leave room for workloads. The main system drive must be an SSD drive.
```

### ARM64 Architecture Devices

ARM64 support is only verified for the Nvidia Jetson Orin device family.

## Trusted Boot

To enable Trusted Boot on your Edge host, your Edge device must meet the following additional requirements.

- Trusted Platform Module (TPM) 2.0 or greater.
- Secure boot UEFI firmware with ability to import custom keys.

> - Verified firmware minimum EFI boot size capability of 850 Megabytes. Contact sales@spectrocloud.com for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Firmware minimum EFI boot size capability of 850 Megabytes. Contact sales@spectrocloud.com for details.
```

Reviewer: Do not use the term Verified or Validated etc if we can avoid it. Simply make the statement that the EFI must support X ..

## Virtual Machine Operator (VMO)

> To operate VMO on an edge devices, the CPU of your Edge device must have the following virtualization technologies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To operate VMO on edge clusters, the CPUs of the constituent Edge devices must have the following virtualization technologies.
```

---
sidebar_label: "Hardware Requirements"
title: "Hardware Requirements"
description: "Learn about the hardware requirements for Palette Edge hosts."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

> An Edge host must meet the minimum hardware requirements to be deployed successfully. Certain features such as Trusted
> Boot also specific hardware requirements. This page provides general guidance on the minimum hardware requirements for
> your Edge hosts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Edge host must meet the minimum hardware requirements to successfully deploy Palette. Certain features, such as Trusted
Boot, also have specific hardware requirements. This page provides general guidance on the minimum hardware requirements for
your Edge hosts.
```

Reviewer 2: I think that's the correct meaning? In the first sentence, I wanted to emphasize that it's not about deploying the Edge host itself, but about deploying Palette onto the Edge host (disregard if I'm wrong).

Author: It's technical deploying a cluster using Palette. Deploy Palette makes it sound like a self-hosted instance.

> Due to variations in hardware and firmware capabilities, in addition to different workloads required by each user, you
> should always verify and evaluate specific devices with Palette Edge as part of solution design. To learn more, contact
> Spectro Cloud sales at sales@spectrocloud.com.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the variations in hardware and firmware capabilities, in addition to the different workloads required by each user, you
should always verify and evaluate specific devices with Palette Edge as part of the solution design. To learn more, contact
Spectro Cloud sales at sales@spectrocloud.com.
```

## Minimum Requirements

All Edge hosts must meet the following minimum hardware requirements.

### AMD64 Architecture Devices

| Component | Requirement                                                                                                                                                          |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU       | - Intel: i3, i5, i7, i9, Xeon series <br /> - AMD: Ryzen 3, 5, 7, 9, and Epyc series                                                                                 |
| CPU Core  | Minimum two cores.                                                                                                                                                   |
| Memory    | Minimum 8 GB.                                                                                                                                                        |

> | Storage   | Main drive requires a minimum of 100 GB storage to accommodate Operating System (OS), Kubernetes, and leave room for workloads. The main drive must be an SSD drive. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Storage   | Main drive requires a minimum of 100 GB storage to accommodate the Operating System (OS), Kubernetes, and workloads. The main drive must be an SSD drive. |
```

### ARM64 Architecture Devices

> ARM64 support is only verified for the Nvidia Jetson Orin device family.

Reviewer 2: If it's verified for the family, should we give minimum requirements for devices in that family? Because right now it seems that any Jetson Orin device would work (unless that't the case, then disregard) 👁️

## Trusted Boot

To enable Trusted Boot on your Edge host, your Edge host must meet the following additional requirements.

- Trusted Platform Module (TPM) 2.0 or greater.
- Secure boot UEFI firmware with ability to import custom keys.

> - Firmware minimum EFI boot size capability of 850 Megabytes. Contact sales@spectrocloud.com for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Firmware minimum EFI boot size capability of 850 MB. Contact sales@spectrocloud.com for details.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this would be more consistent with the previous abbreviations :)

## Virtual Machine Operator (VMO)

To operate VMO on edge clusters, the CPUs of the constituent Edge hosts must have the following virtualization
technologies.

> - Intel: Intel Virtualization Technology for x86 (VT-d) / Intel Virtualization Technology for Directed I/O (VT-x)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Intel: Intel Virtualization Technology for x86 (VT-d) or Intel Virtualization Technology for Directed I/O (VT-x)
```

Reviewer 2: I would rather spell it out, for the sake of screen readers :)
